Project name: Density

This interactive project simulates how objects of different densities behave when submerged under fluids of different densities. Users can generate cubes of desired mass and volume and drag them around using their mouse. When they drop it in the fluid, it will behave according to physics due to the buoyancy force of the liquid. The user can open the cube list to see the cubes they generated listed along with their attributes. From there they can also remove any cube they want. A limit of 5 cubes has been set to exist at a time.

A demo video can be found in the "Demo video" folder. The project files can be found in the "Project" folder. The build can be run simply by running Density.exe in the "Build" folder.

When I was a kid I would frequently fill up a bucket with water and submerge my toys in it. I looked for the line between toys which could float and which couldn't. But that was limiting because I only had discrete objects at my disposal and no control over their or the water's density. When I started making physics simulations for my job I wanted to make one for myself, a game where I could control all the densities. Unfortunately, the college application season rolled around and I did not get the time to do so, eventually forgetting about it. However, the DALI Lab application was the perfect excuse for me to create something I always wanted to.

I think the app can be very educational, especially for those starting out in their journey in Newtonian Physics. It teaches the concept of buoyancy in a 
digestible way through self-experimentation and can inspire further exploration of Physics. Although I have prior experience with Unity, I had never made anything where users drag game objects with their mouse. I had to learn from the Unity documentation. However, it was difficult due to the 3D environment and I had to adjust  the dragging speed using some scrappy scaling. If I had more time, I would look more into Raycasts to do this. Moreover, making the menu with the cube list was a challenge where I had to innovate. I had to assign IDs to each cube so that I could access specific ones from the menu by searching their name. I am sure there are more elegant ways to do something like this, but I found satisfaction in coming up with the solution myself from scratch.